# Natural Language Processing for Signal Generation on News Data
### Motivation
Stock prices could react significantly to the contents and the presentation of the news release of an impactful story on an industry or company. Hence, news is a great source in the decision-making process of a certain stock's investment. However, the massive amount of news data renders it simply impossible for a human to manually make a systematic approach to trading on news signals. In Finance, every second of the decision-making process matters to result in an effective decision. In our model, we can leverage deep learning in order to train models that provide sentiment scores for headlines, articles, tweets, and posts. These sentiments can produce valuable numerical signals to support a buy/sell/hold decision as well as valuation models.
### Frameworks
* __Data Manipulation__
  * _numpy_: Manipulation for large, multi-dimensional arrays and matrices
  * _pandas_: Manipulation and analysis on numerical tables and time series
* __Machine Learning__
  * _sklearn_: light weight machine learning packaged tools for classification, regression, and clustering algorithms
  * _tensorflow_: Popular deep neural network frameworks.
  * _keras_: high-level API to build and train deep learning models in tensorflow.
* __Natural Language Processing__
  * _nltk_: Natural Language Toolkit
  * _Word Embedings_: files that could be read in to generate the embeding matrix  
* __Utility__
  * _tqdm_: Offers progress bar over iterable (e.g. for loop)
### Data Source
This project used a open-source dataset from the Figure Eight platform. 
Link to the dataset: https://www.figure-eight.com/data-for-everyone/ 
### Usage and Examples
__Trading_News_NLP_intro.ipynb__: this notebook gives a brief introduction about the project itself and some useful concept that you may want to know before looking at the code  
__Trading_News_NLP_Model.ipynb__: this notebook will guide you through the code for our sentiment analysis model. we provide detailed explanation of each part of our code and some graphs demonstrating the structure of the Nerual Network.  
__Trading_News_NLP_Strategy.ipynb__: this final notebook gives an example of how to use the sentiment scores generated by our model. 
### Results
Our model achieved 57% accuracy on predicting three sentiment labels on the news dataset.
### Futrue works
1. Generate our own dataset for sentiment analysis
2. Add state of art NLP techniques (Attention, transformer) to our model
3. Build the model into a system which can automatically generate sentiment signals by scraping data from the internet
4. Try other NLP methods on news data (for example: Topic mining)
### License
haven't decided

